what is up guys karma medic here and
today I want to talk all about the iPad
pro and how I use it to take notes at
university or college
it's basically changed my life when it
comes to organization taking lecture
notes and basically managing while at my
university if you need to the channel
welcome my name is Nasir I'm a second
year medical student at King's College
of London and if you enjoy this content
feel free to leave a like on the video
and subscribe to my channel if you want
to stick around I'm going to show you
guys how it is that I actually organize
all of my different lecture notes
tutorials workshops online learning
modules etc on my iPad also the color
coding that I use in my lecture notes
and how that helps me find important
information faster and yeah hopefully
just a bunch of useful stuff that you
guys will enjoy so without further ado
let's just get started before you leave
in a comment down below yes I know this
charging cable is here and yes I know it
is totally ruining the aesthetic of this
video but anyway just ignore it
notability is my app of choice I've used
goodnotes 5 I've used OneNote and I just
don't like them as much as notability it
just has the perfect overall package for
me alright so let me move to the side so
that you guys can see everything that
I'm doing on screen first things first
that start off with was over here on the
left side of my screen these are what
are called dividers in notability so if
you imagine you how to paper based
version of this notebook you would have
big folders or dividers and then inside
them you would have your different
lecture notes or tutorial notes and
things like that
so these bigger files over here are
folders kind of like this kind of like
this so this folder over here is going
to be for one subject let's say so for
example here it'll be for supporting
life or for inflammation or for aging
etc etc and then within that folder
you're gonna have all of your different
lectures let's talk about aging
specifically for a second so once you've
gone into that divider you'll see here
that I have all of my different subjects
within that divider so within the big
topic of aging we have the introductory
week then Parkinson's disease muscles
and bone and aging the alimentary tract
cognitive impairment nutrition etc and
in each one of those smaller subjects I
have all of my individual lectures so
let's take Parkinson's disease for
example over here you can see II lo1 so
that stands for e-learning or on
learning number one and here I have
lecture 1 at the bottom oops lecture to
lecture 3 lecture 4 so this is an easy
way for me to organize both the
different lectures tutorials elearning
workshops whatever it is that i have for
a specific subject so for Parkinson's
for example at a glance I can quickly
see that I have four lectures one
elearning module and then one workshop
this should actually be labeled wo1
nice so at a quick glance I can see that
I have four lectures here one workshop
and one elearning module me personally I
don't take my lecture notes directly on
the lecture slides and that's because
this is a good example
you get lectures like this sometimes
which are really colorful and it's gonna
be difficult to write on it's gonna be
difficult to see of course you can use
colors that will accent well with the
background but personally for me this
just looks kind of messy on top of that
I don't necessarily want every single
slide in my lecture notes what I want to
do is take the most important slides and
include them in my handwritten lecture
notes and that way I can pick and choose
what I think is most important as
opposed to having a bunch of slides that
I skipped through and that are empty
without notes because they're not as
useful for example right here this is a
bunch of papers it looks like that are
talking about Parkinson's I don't need
to include this whole slide in my
lecture notes I can just write down the
one or two sentences that I think are
important from this slide and that's why
I don't write my lecture notes directly
on the slides I prefer to make a
separate document which I call important
stuff so for each one of these subjects
on have a note called important stuff so
for example here we have important stuff
Parkinson's disease if you guys click on
that you'll see that it has the notes
for each one of the lectures tutorials
and workshops and elearning modules that
I have worked on for that subject and
the best part is that it's color coded
really nicely so it's easy for me to
pick out the important pieces of
information that I want and it links and
syncs and connects back to all of the
different individual lectures that I
have here so let's return to muscle and
bone in aging I have for e-learning
lectures and then I also have three case
based discussions so when I go to my
important stuff document for this
subject which is muscles and bone in
aging which is in the bigger divider of
aging if you go to the important stuff
you'll see that I have learned lecture
oh one osteoporosis and metabolic
disease which corresponds with lecture
oh one over here this lecture over here
that you see is a very typical example
of one of my lecture notes you'll notice
that it's divided generally into three
columns and always always always very
rarely with few exceptions my lecture
notes fit on one page so this is where
the page ends if you can see this sort
of thicker line over here so all of my
lecture notes for each lecture fit on
one page and that is very important to
me because I remember things
geographically or spatially on the page
so let's say for example that I was
trying to remember this piece of
information I'm when I'm trying to
recall this information ending in an
exam I'll remember what was to the right
of it what was beneath it what was up
and to the left
that's how I remember different pieces
of information that are grouped together
sort of with this spatial or
geographical way of remembering things
let's get rid of all of that okay so
like I said this is a typical example of
my lecture notes split into three
columns and the best part about my notes
is that it's color-coded really really
well and my color coding stays
throughout all of my lectures so that I
always know what each color means and it
helps me pick out the important pieces
of information when I'm quickly looking
for them at a glance first things first
you write out the lecture title in pink
and then I read a couple of things in
orange if they don't really fit under a
general heading they're just sort of not
fun facts but general facts about the
topic that the lecture is gonna be on
they don't really fit under one of these
headings that I put in dark blue if that
fact or piece of information doesn't
really fit anywhere it'll go over here
in orange right at the beginning then
for each lecture slide I write out the
title of the lecture slide in this dark
blue color that you guys see over here
so each one of these titles or headings
is the heading of a lecture slide and
then within each lecture slide I use
that yellow color again to set out the
sort of subheadings or other important
topics within that single lecture slide
for example let's talk about definitions
we have the DEXA scan osteoporosis
osteopenia fragility etc so these are
sort of subheadings within the single
lecture slide and I'll put those and
from color as well all of my normal
writing or sort of general facts general
ideas etc is gonna be done in gray after
that I write all of my medicines all of
my treatments anything pharmacology
related in this bright green color that
you guys can see over here and so if I
was going through a lecture let's say
for here osteoporosis and metabolic bone
disease and I want to quickly scan to
what are the treatments of osteoporosis
I can quickly look for the light green
colored words and I know that that's
going to be the medications for that
lecture on top of that I write things
that I think are particularly important
in red so that's what you guys will see
over here that will obviously
immediately draw my attention and when I
take a look at this lecture slide in the
future when I'm reviewing it and of
course I also copy paste all of the
graphs or diagrams that I think are
important and yes I could rejoin out
myself
and yeah that would probably make me
remember it better but I'm generally
writing a lot of lecture notes a day and
I'm doing a lot of writing every single
day and so if I can save myself a little
bit of time by not having to read draw
out diagrams I'll just copy and paste it
to make my life a little bit easier
let's see what else do I have here I
usually write anything that I know is
high-yield for an exam where I've seen
come up in previous exams or tests I
usually write that in purple so anything
in light purple has definitely come up
on an exam before and anything in dark
purple is likely going to come up on an
exam because it's a really important
idea or topic or something like that so
yeah here we go anything in light purple
is examine it's examinable
or I've seen it on an exam so here I've
even written an exam question so all of
this in purple I've seen come up in past
tests or on exams and things like that
and so it's a fact that I definitely
want to know so yeah I think that pretty
much sums it up for my lectures all of
my lecture notes look exactly the same
they don't have this exact same color
scheme the exact three columns let's for
example just take a look at the next
subject over here so again one two three
here one two three they all sort of work
around the exact same color scheme the
exact same organization and that helps
me have continuity throughout my
lectures and it helps me immediately
identify information that I know is
important now when it comes to revising
for exams I take those elektra notes
that I've made and I can dense them down
into the absolutely most important
information
the most clinically relevant information
if you don't know on the second-year
medical student at Kings and so most
importantly for me from all these
lectures is the clinically focused and
clinically relevant information so for
example this is another series of
lecture notes that I did this one is on
the pathogenesis of sepsis and so after
I've written my general lecture notes
which you guys will see here when I'm
reviewing this material for the exam I
will condense everything that I've
written up there into the most important
clinical information and I will almost
always do this in a yellow color it's
for example all of these lecture notes
that you see up here has been condensed
into just these few yellow notes over
here and that's one of the most
important most high-yield information
that I can look at how to glance for
example here again we have hospital
acquired infections
here are my three columns that I wrote
for the normal lecture notes and when I
was reviewing this for my exam I
summarized it down into just this small
amount of information that you guys see
here written in yellow and so that way I
take my notes which are quite long quite
big and I summarized them down into as
little as possible I also quickly want
to mention that this iPhone is just so
viable for things like tutorials as well
so let's take for example these case
based discussions over here this is a
printout that you would get handed in
class or you would have to print it out
before you came to class and so instead
of me writing on this piece of paper or
this handout that I know I'm definitely
gonna lose the second I get home I'm
just gonna take it out of my bag and
it's gonna get lost I have it here on my
iPad and it's electronically available I
can of course write on it highlights etc
etc and it's just always gonna be there
and I can access these notes at any time
from any place even if I don't have an
internet connection it's all saved on my
iPad of course it also syncs with my
laptop and so any changes that I make my
laptop are transferred over here and any
changes that I make here or a transfer
to my laptop so it's just a really
really great way to make sure you never
lose anything to keep yourself organized
I want to see the iPod is fantastic and
I also use notability for other aspects
of my life as well you can see here that
I have a to-do list and right now you
can see it's a little bit empty because
I've done most of these deadlines that
have come up over here and but I use it
to track my to do this it's sort of like
my homework diary or my little
pod that I used to use to keep track of
everything in my life you know things I
have to do when I get home
administrative stuff things for the
house etc I just write it down on my
iPad now instead of a piece of paper I
also use my iPad to keep track of my
karma medicai youtube channel so
everything from you know video ideas to
writing down on the iPad things that I
want to put into videos etc etc taking a
look at my channel analytics and things
like that I use my iPad to keep track of
basically everything in my life let's
get this boy out of the way in fact I
think it's turned off cuz it stopped
recording no battery power remains great
well we'll see how much of a second
angle you guys get in this video anyways
guys I think that covers everything that
I wanted to talk about about how I use
my iPad to take notes in university if
you guys enjoyed this video or found it
useful at all definitely feel free to
leave a like on the video it really
helps out the channel and I would
appreciate it if you haven't already you
can follow me on Instagram or subscribe
to this channel to get even more content
from me if you enjoyed this video that
much anyways guys that is it for me I
hope you've enjoyed this video and I
will see you in the next one peace